1. INTRODUCTION:
1.1. Context and background
Sound is generated by the vibration of the particles in a medium. When an object vibrates, its vibrations create pressure waves that propagate in all directions, creating sound waves that move nearby particles and carry the vibrations further. The properties of these vibrations determine the behaviour and characteristics of the sound wave: the frequency of the sound wave determines the pitch of the sound produced and the amplitude, its volume. During the transmission, the properties of the medium, such as its density and the speed of sound in the medium, influence the speed and quality of the sound. Other factors, such as the room in which the sound is generated or the speaker enclosure used, also affect the transmission of the sound. Finally, when said sound waves reach the receiver (a microphone, a human ear, etc.), the pressure variations of the sound wave are transformed into electrical signals that can be  analyzed either digitally or by our brain.
1.2. Problem statement and objectives
The main objective of this report is to study how room acoustics and speaker enclosures affect the perceived sound. During the project, we used five different 3D printed speakers with different enclosures and characteristics. To analyse how the different enclosures work, we recorded the same sound using all five speakers and computed the transfer function of each of the recorded sounds. Furthermore, we repeated the recording in a different room to also understand how different acoustics and reverberation affect and modify the sound. Finally, we conducted recordings using both a low-fidelity device (a Nothing phone) and a high-fidelity sound Zoom recorder to evaluate how the choice of equipment influences the quality and characteristics of the captured sound. The aim of the report is therefore to compute the transfer function of each speaker used and the transfer function of the rooms where the audios were recorded. Once these have been calculated, they can be applied to the original sound in order to synthetize a sound that resembles and imitates the characteristics of the different speakers and rooms.
1.3. Hypothesis
As we have learned in the theory sessions, speaker enclosures and room acoustics significantly affect how a sound wave is propagated through a medium. Nonetheless, not all speaker enclosures have the same impact as others. The most common speaker shape used by manufacturers is the rectangular geometry because of its straight walls and sharp corners. For this reason, and based on what we have learned in the theory sessions, we believe that both speakers 4 and 5 would generate the best results, with the least distortion generated and the highest fidelity to the original sound.
Taking into account the rooms used for the recordings, we think that the soundproofed room will produce recordings with the least reverberation and distortion due to its controlled acoustic environment, designed to absorb sound reflections and minimize interference. Conversely, we expect the library room, which is less acoustically treated and has reflective surfaces such as walls, and tables, to result in recordings with more reverberation and sound coloration. 
Additionally, we predict that the type of recording equipment will also influence the perceived quality of the captured sound, with the high-fidelity Zoom recorder providing more accurate and consistent recordings than the low-fidelity Nothing phone. This is because professional-grade equipment is designed to capture a wider dynamic range and reproduce frequencies with greater precision, whereas lower-fidelity devices typically compress audio and introduce noise.

2. METHODOLOGY:
2.1. Experimental setup
The first step of the project was to 3D print the five speakers. Each one of the speakers have different geometry and enclosure properties and, therefore, their transfer functions are different and affect the generated sound in a different way. Once we printed the speakers, we assembled the circuit using an MP3-DF Mini Player Module, a MicroSD card and a 4.5 V voltage supply. We also assembled each speaker enclosure with a speaker with 2W of power.

After assembling all five speakers, we went to UPF 54.025’s classroom and library to record the audio using the different speakers. Speaker 1 does not have an enclosure, while Speaker 3 is equipped with an open enclosure or infinite baffle support. These two configurations alter the generated sound differently compared to closed-enclosure designs. Specifically, the sound waves emitted from the back of these speakers interfere with the waves generated at the front, leading to resonance and diffraction effects.
In contrast, the remaining speakers (2, 4 and 5) have closed enclosures,  which amplify the output by reducing interference from the waves coming from the back.
The audio we used is the laser gun sound provided in Aula Global. During the recordings, we kept the initial conditions for each speaker the same. This included keeping the placement of the speaker and the sound recorder constant across all speaker enclosures and in both testing environments.
2.2 Environmental Conditions
As previously mentioned, the recordings were conducted in two distinct spaces with different acoustic characteristics: the soundproof room at UPF and one of the library's pods.
2.2.1 The soundproof room
At UPF, we have access to a soundproof room where we used four acoustic panels. These panels absorb sound energy, reducing reflections and reverberation to create a “dry” or “dead” acoustic environment that emphasises direct sound. By using them, we tried to replicate an anechoic chamber, allowing us to capture the raw sound produced by the speakers without interference from external factors or alterations caused by the room's transfer function. 
In an anechoic chamber, distance perception depends entirely on sound level (volume). As the distance from the sound source doubles, the volume decreases by approximately 6 dB, following the inverse square law. However, given that our set up is not entirely anechoic (we would have to cover the room with acoustic panels instead of using just four panels), some reverberation was created, causing some distortion and resonance.

2.2.2 The library room
The second room we used for the recordings was one of the workrooms located on the second floor of the library. We chose this space because of its simple architecture.
The room is characterised by highly reflective materials, which reflect most sound waves instead of absorbing them. This creates a “bright” and “live” acoustic environment, where sound is sustained over a longer period of time.
The distant walls and lack of wall decorations contribute to the development of more complex and spacious reverberation patterns. In this environment, distance perception is influenced by the balance between direct sound and the surrounding reverberation.
Unfortunately, the air conditioning in the chamber was running during the recordings, resulting in background noise. This interference could impact the accuracy of the analysis and potentially alter the synthesis process by introducing unwanted artifacts when replicating the original sound.



2.3 Procedure 
To investigate the relationship between audio signals and various experimental setups, the procedure involved careful playback and measurement of audio samples under controlled conditions. The audio signal used was a laser sound.
The sound was recorded using a microphone/iphone placed at a fixed distance (40 cm) and angle (0º) from the speakers, ensuring consistent spatial relationships across different setups. The recordings were performed in the same room to minimise external interference that was not part of the experiment.
Its frequency response was analysed using the code developed throughout the seminars to determine how different setups affected the representation of various frequency bands. Additionally, while recording the sound, we took notes on our subjective impressions of the different speaker enclosures, paying special attention to clarity, tonal balance, and loudness.
The independent variables in the study included the design of the speaker enclosures, the fidelity settings of the recording systems, and speaker configurations (e.g., polarity). The dependent variables were the resulting frequency responses. By isolating and controlling these variables, the procedure aimed to accurately capture the impact of the experimental conditions on audio quality. For each of the experiments we fixed some variables or others.
